Oscar/gc rebased (#21)
spotandjake/grain: docs/contributor/data_representations.md

Author: Should this file link to `compiler/src/codegen/data_representations.re` now that we split those out.

I know we mention all of the layouts here, but It is always nice when we point to the source of truth.

Reviewer: Sure!

# Grain In-Memory Data Representations

> As of Grain `v0.8` [Wasm GC](https://github.com/WebAssembly/gc) is used to represent all grain values. This means that all values are represented either as an `i31Ref` or `struct`. We use `i31Ref`s to represent "stack" values, which are values that can be stored directly in a WebAssembly `i32`, and we use `struct`s to represent "heap" values, which are values that require more than 32 bits of data to represent. The layout of the `struct`s is described in the section on heap-allocated data.

Author: ```suggestion
As of Grain `v0.8` [Wasm GC](https://github.com/WebAssembly/gc) is used to represent all grain values. This means that all values are represented either as an `ref i31` or `struct`. We use `ref i31`s to represent "stack" values, which are values that can be stored directly in a WebAssembly `i32`, and we use `struct`s to represent "heap" values, which are values that require more than 32 bits of data to represent. The layout of the `struct`s is described in the section on heap-allocated data.
```

While this document describes the structure of grain values directly it is preferable to use helper functions provided by the runtime through `runtime/unsafe/conv` and `runtime/dataStructures` when manipulating grain values.

## Value tagging

Values in Grain are tagged. This means that we reserve a number of bits to signal the type of the value. Normally, since Grain is a statically typed language, we wouldn't need to tag the values because the types are guaranteed at compile-time. However, since our values are tagged, at runtime we can determine the type of a value. This is what allows us to have generic `print`, `==`, `compare` and `marshal` functions that work for any data type—even user defined types.

> You can find all of the tags in the code in [codegen/value_tags.re](https://github.com/grain-lang/grain/blob/main/compiler/src/codegen/value_tags.re), but they'll be broken down here.

Author: ```suggestion
You can find all of the tags in [codegen/value_tags.re](https://github.com/grain-lang/grain/blob/main/compiler/src/codegen/value_tags.re), but they'll also be broken down here.
```

### Stack tags

> We look at the last 3 bits of an `i31Ref` to determine its type.

Author: ```suggestion
We look at the last 3 bits of a `ref i31` to determine its type.
```

```plaintext
simple number    0bxx1
short values     0b010
reserved         0b100
constants        0b110
```

> Since all values are stored as `WasmRef`s we can use `WasmRef.isRefI31` to check if the value is a "stack" value, otherwise we can assume that it is a grain value however to be sure `isGrainHeapValue` can be used to ensure that the value is a grain value as opposed to a generic WebAssembly reference type. See the section on heap-allocated data for more information on determining the type of "heap" values.

Author: ```suggestion
Since all values are stored as `WasmRef`s we can use `WasmRef.isRefI31` from `runtime/unsafe/wasmref` to check if the value is a "stack" value, otherwise we can assume that it is a grain value however to be sure `isGrainHeapValue` can be used to ensure that the value is a grain value as opposed to a generic WebAssembly reference type. See the section on heap-allocated data for more information on determining the type of "heap" values.
```

## Structure of Stack-Allocated Data

### Simple numbers

> Typically, tags span 3 bits. That's usually fine, but if we limited numbers to 28 bits, we could only support ~250 million possible numbers, which is a bit lame. For this reason, we dedicate the final bit of our 31-bit values to numbers—if the final bit is a 1, it's a "simple" 30-bit integer. This leaves us with three other possible tags— `0b010`, `0b100`, and `0b110`.

Author: ```suggestion
Typically, tags span 3 bits. That's usually fine, but if we limited numbers to 28 bits, we could only support ~250 million possible numbers, which is a bit lame. For this reason, we dedicate the final bit of our 31-bit values to numbers—if the final bit is a 1, it's a "simple" 30-bit integer. This leaves us with three other possible tags— `0b010`, `0b100`, and `0b110` for the other "stack" tags.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, tags span 3 bits. That's usually fine, but if we limited numbers to 28 bits, we could only support ~250 million possible numbers, which is a bit sad. For this reason, we dedicate the final bit of our 31-bit values to numbers—if the final bit is a 1, it's a "simple" 30-bit integer. This leaves us with three other possible tags— `0b010`, `0b100`, and `0b110` for the other "stack" tags.
```

The value `x` gets "saved" so later when we call `foo`, we still have access to `x`. The heap layout looks like this:

```wasm
(type $GrainClosure (struct
  (field $valueTag i32)
  (field $cycleMarker (mut i32))
  (field $data (array (mut ref any)))
  (field $wasmFunc (mut ref null func))
))
```

> The arity represents the number of arguments to the function. `*wasm func` is a pointer to where the assembled wasm function is located in the WebAssembly function table. `size` is the number of values stored in the closure..

Author: ```suggestion
The `$data` field contains the values required by the closure. While `$wasmFunc` is a reference to the closures function itself.
```

### Strings

> Bytes and Strings are currently the only data types that store data in 8-bit arrays.

Author: Is it even worth mentioning this anymore? I think it's clear from the type and seems like something we'd be likely to forget to update.

### Bytes

> Bytes and Strings are currently the only data types that store data in 8-bit arrays.

Author: Is it even worth mentioning this anymore? I think it's clear from the type and seems like something we'd be likely to forget to update.

Reviewer: We could remove it.
